welcome to cooking in HD it's Bart and
today I'm making for you a beef Bergen
young the thing about my beef
bourguignon recipe is that it's inspired
by the classic Julia Child's recipe
which serve as the hallmark for French
cooking but I've also used some Tyler
Florence techniques to simplify it a
little bit and I've added my own twist
which is to use beef cheeks and the neck
of a cow to make a really really
succulent and tender piece of beef that
will literally melt in your mouth so
stick around and I'll show you how to
make this delicious beef bourguignon
recipe okay guys let me show you what's
going into our beef bourguignon and I
start with my favorite part the booze so
we need some good cognac um you don't
need like the really expensive kind but
um buy something decent you need a
bottle of Burgundy wine which is
actually how that where this dish gets
its name from this bottle costs about 20
bucks it's not the cheapest but um use
something good and hopefully in your
part of the world it's a bit cheaper
I've got some all-purpose flour in there
I've got beef broth olive oil I've got
some time which I'm going to use in a
bouquet garni with my rosemary I've got
some tomato paste pepper salt I'll use a
few cloves of garlic one yellow onion
and two or three carrots so let me show
you guys why my beef burger your recipe
stands apart from others this is a neck
of a cow that's what this cut is called
I know it's fairly rare and you can
actually ask your butcher if you order
to have time they can usually get this
for you I had this in Portugal at a
Portuguese steakhouse and this kind of
beef is amazing it's so tender and
flavorful but it has to be cooked low
and slow so it's perfect for this beef
bourguignon recipe and then this is the
cheek of a cow a beef cheek and a
and if you look in here there's just so
much marbling there's connective tissue
and so many good things this actually
has a bit of a rough texture to it but I
guarantee you if you can get this in
this recipe once you cook it properly
it's just going to melt in your mouth
it's absolutely amazing and really
inexpensive and finally I've got some
smoked bacon in this package here and
i'm going to use about five or six
strips all right so now you can see I've
cubed my beef into about one and a half
inch squares these are the cheeks same
left some fat on it I've tried to trim
up most of it but you know fat equals
flavor so I don't want to cut all the
fat off now I've cut my bacon into what
are called lardons which just mean sort
of long skinny pieces like this and
actually lard on is the name of the
restaurant in Toronto on roxas ville
Avenue where I got the inspiration for
doing this recipe and I'm going to put
the bacon lardons into a large pot which
has some boiling water in it and that's
going to actually help crisp up the
bacon and I know that seems
counterintuitive but believe me it works
ok so my bacon is nice and golden brown
and crispy so now with the slotted spoon
I'm just going to drain with the fat
drain out a little bit you put it on a
paper towel I want to leave the fat
behind because I'm going to actually
just brown the outside of the beef for
my beef bourguignon in the bacon fat
right now I've got salt and pepper on
the outside of these and i literally
just take a handful and throw them in
and start flying the other side for just
a minute or through the picture it's got
a a nice brown coating on the outside I
don't want to crowd this so this is
probably enough and i'll do the whole
thing in bathroom there's the first
batch of deep that i fried up you can
see it's kind of a a little bit browned
on the outside and i'm just going to do
the same for the remaining pieces check
on those sauté my onions and my carrot
of the Flying Cloud medium chocolate I
just want to soften them up and I've
just added one heaping tablespoon of
tomato paste and two big tangle spoons
of flour and I'm just going to mix this
around cover everything and fry it all
together okay next I'm gonna add about 1
cup of pena
and I'm going to mix this up and then
I'm going to light it to get all the
alcohol out of here you know the alcohol
just boil out but um I think I'm okay
you see it's lit do flings
alright so the alcohols now burnt off
and I'm just going to take ol bottle of
wine and just dump it in there by the
way I tasted this just to make sure it
was in court because you don't want to
go this far and then find out that you
used a cork bottle of one okay now i'm
just putting the beef back in and you
know you saw me put in a bunch of flour
earlier that's actually going to help
thicken the beef bourguignon and this
sort of cherry color a wine color is
going to darken over time as we braise
it and then we're going to add some beef
stock and i'll show you how much to add
just based on the sort of the level of
liquid in in the pot got what's called a
bouquet garni these are the herbs that
you saw me use earlier I've tied them up
using butchers twine there's a bay leaf
thyme and rosemary I'm going to put that
in and then I'm just going to put in a
little bit more beef stock I reckon
maybe I don't know cup or cup and a half
okay what I want to do next is bring
this up to like sort of a fast simmer
and once it's thoroughly heated I'm
going to take this and put it in the
oven at 300 degrees Fahrenheit
alright so I just brought this up to a
boil and now i'm going to put the lid on
and we'll put in the oven full at 300
degrees fahrenheit well it's been one
hour so we'll take this out of the the
oven and check on our beef bourguignon
alright so you can see the liquid
starting to reduce down there's a little
bit less of it will give it a mix and
then I'll put it back in for another
hour and then we'll check on it again
okay now we're going to add grow onions
and some cremini mushrooms to the beef
or genome and for that I need just a few
sprigs of thyme obviously pearl onions I
have blanched these and the peeled um
like yesterday so the day before i made
this because there is a little bit of
effort required to get these done and so
you probably want to prepare them ahead
of time a few cloves of garlic cremini
mushrooms and some extra virgin olive
oil is what you need for the next step
so my garlic is in my pearl onions have
a little bit of color on them my
mushrooms have some color on them it's
now time to add this is that be for a
venial okay so let me show you guys what
I did I've added the pearl onions the
mushrooms and the garlic into the beef
bourguignon and I've also added 1
tablespoon of brown sugar just it was a
little bit acidic and I thought that it
would bounce it and it has and i've
added salt and pepper just to suit my
taste and now it's ready to go back in
the oven for about another 45 minutes
and that will finish it off ok guys so
here is the final product as you can see
I've got my beef cheeks and my neck of
beef plated over some egg noodles and
I've got garnished it with
I'm and parsley and I've got pieces of
bacon on top so let me taste this for
you and I'll show you that looks like
inside and if I just cut in literally
the meat is just falling apart I mean
you can just pull it apart and it is
absolutely delicious so this from oh
it's like butter and melt in your mouth
is incredible and what great value for
meat that really isn't expensive but if
you cook it properly it's just so tender
and juicy absolutely incredible this may
be one of the tastiest things that I've
made on cooking in HD give it a try I
know you guys will love it I'll see you
next time on cooking in HD Cheers